Server-client means that there is a computer that has the information we want.
The client is the computer that enters the servers and asks for the information.

MAC address - a physical address that can't be changed, it's being etched on the device.
Example: 00:2a:69:0B:37:8k - hexadecimal. The first three parts tell us who made the device.
Every Mac address is unique and there could be only one of each.
You could only know the MAC of people in the same network as you

ARP - allows us to ask the internet who has a specific MAC.

SubNet -a network inside a network, make networks more efficient.
Through subnetting, network traffic can travel a shorter distance without passing through unnecessary routers to reach its destination.
Subnet mask - is the ips that in the same subnet.

IP address has 4 parts and has only numbers 0.0.0.0 - 255.255.255.255
IP unlike MAC can be changed and used to send and receive data.
For every wifi you use your private IP is different, it indicates where are you in the wifi.

Why do we need MAC and IP both?
We want to be precise and make sure that the right person receives the information.
The MAC is to make sure it's the right person, and the IP is to find the person.

All the people in the same router have different private IPs but when sending a request online,
we use public IPs. all the members use the same IP in the router becasue there is a limited number of IPs (255^4)
So public ip is used to communicate with other networks and private ip is used to communicate in the same network.

Network types

WAN (wide area network) - connects different LANs
LAN - a local network that usually is inside one building and connects devices together.

IPv4 - regular IP with 4 parts.
IPv6 - it's an IP with 6 parts instead of 4 to allow us to have more IP possibilities.

there are 3 ranges for private IP
10.255.255.255 - 10.0.0.0
172.31.255.255 - 172.16.0.0
192.168.255.255 - 192.168.0.0

If we want to communicate, we have to know our IP address, dest address, and have a network connection.


Ping - measuring how long it takes for a packet to be sent and get a reply.

packet - contain header and payload. we send small packets because:
It is faster to transmit
if a part has an error, we don't have to send the whole thing again
they can take different paths and arrive simutieounesly


Model 5 layers - OSI model

5.application - what do i want to move?
4.transport - communication inside the target, makes sure the incomed data is proper.
3.network - decide where to send the data next, how to getthere
2.data link - transporting data between close target
1.physical -  trasporting bits thru electric signals
*If we want to send a message, we have to use the forth layer - transport.


Session: Tracks user interactions during a browsing session, stored temporarily on the server.
Cookies: Small data pieces stored in a user's browser to remember preferences and login information.
Local Storage: Client-side storage in browsers for persistently storing data beyond a single session.
Cache: Temporarily stores frequently accessed data to speed up website loading times and reduce server load.